# Week One

My first week of development here at MIA is in the books as we work to create our Knight Foundation funded reboot of an interactive storytelling application.

As we move through the development process over the next nine months, I'll be writing periodic (hopefully weekly) updates on our progress. My goal is to make these posts interesting and useful for both technical and non-technical staff alike as I attempt to fulfill both of our grant's goals –– not just to create a storytelling application for fellow museums –– but to also effectively chronicle the creative process both through regular blog posts and a well-documented, open source code repository.

In order to cater to an audience of widely varying technical skills, I'll try to designate any techno-talk with italics so that a non-technical reader can simply skip past the jargon without missing out on other interesting information.

Now that we've got that out of the way, let's talk about the project!

## The Project

At its core, this project is composed of three central elements.

- __"The Client App"__: An open source rebuild of the Griot storytelling application https://artstories.artsmia.org/#/
- __"The CMS"__: A new, more approachable content management system for the application (decoupled from Wordpress)
- __"Open Source Project"__ A thoroughly documented process and codebase.

The old version of the Client App, originally named Griot, after a mythological African storyteller was built, appropriately, to accompany a new exhibit of African art.

The goal was to provide museum-goers with a seamless web-based application that they could access from iPad's scattered throughout the museum in order to learn additional information about the art.

Unfortunately, although the Client App currently fulfills it's mission and has consistently received positive evaluations from guests and staff, many of the application's original developers have since left the MIA and it's largely undocumented codebase has begun to show its age.

By better documenting the code and decoupling the CMS from Wordpress, our hope is that the new Client App and CMS will be easier for other museums to adopt, expand, or adapt to fit their own needs –– regardless of the technical skills of their staff.

## Progress

Now, barely five days into the project, I've been really happy with the amount of code I've been able to write. It's not uncommon for the early stages of projects to get bogged down with planning and meetings.

Thankfully, MIA's commitment to the agile methodology and Kjel (the project's other developer) and I's shared interest in 
