# Museum Computer Network 2017

_Carl Peaslee_

It's easy, as the sole programmer on a project, to begin to develop something akin to a God Complex.

You wake up in the morning and you open up your repository and it is good! Every file is exactly where you intended it to be, each line is written just how you like.

When a designer or a project manager suggests something, you scoff: Ha! What do you know about Javascript!? I am a developer! Be grateful that you may behold my creation!

When you finally deign to let a user consort with your project, you are appalled by their ineptitude! They create bugs out of nothing! They can't even use the simple yet ingenious (and dare you say, elegant) interface you've created for them. Fools!

I exaggerate of course (though those of you who work with developers might disagree). I bring this up, however, because of my recent experiences at the this years Museum Computer Network (MCN) conference in Pittsburgh where Mia's  team and I gave a presentation about our new storytelling application, Lume.

As I watched my colleagues present on the history of Lume's version one predecessor, Griot, I was inspired by all of the work they'd done to get us to the point where we were now presenting a functioning beta of version two. Few applications make it to a version one! The fact that we are now going to version two really speaks to the tenacity of Mia's staff.

My role in the presentation was to give a live demo and provide support to our "beta testers" as they got an opportunity to do a hands on workshop. Presenting doesn't make me particularly nervous –– but nothing puts butterflies in my stomach like live-demoing unpolished software. (Just look at the most recent iPhone X presentation! Apple has some of the best engineers in the world and they couldn't even keep flubs out of their live demo!) Throw in some slow hotel WIFI and some last last minute, somewhat suspect bug fixes (yeah, 6am git commits...), and you've got a real recipe for anxiety.

But thanks to some luck and some patience from our attendees, our "beta testers" were actually able to create some really neat pieces of content. And the most exciting part for me was that I was finally able to get to meet, observe, and receive live feedback from future users! A dream come true!

We got a lot of good questions, criticism, and compliments but I was most struck by a few particulars:

Compliment: User's were impressed that they were able to create such a professional looking piece of interactive content with relative ease.

Criticism: Almost all of the user's were confused in one way or another about the way our interface was handling and communicating the way information was being saved. For a seemingly small aspect of the whole application, it was really informative to see how much turmoil it caused for users! (I guess we've all had one of those traumatic forgot-to-save-the-Word-document moments in our past.)

Question: What was the difference between Object Stories and Thematic Stories? Why weren't they treated more similarly? Would their be other kinds of stories?

All in all, MCN 2017 was definitely a success –– and we're excited to use what we learned to inform our next version of Lume!
